Readme.md, before:

# The PostgreSQL Game

The goal of this game is to get the passwords for the various user accounts in the PostgreSQl cluster. Retriving a password for a user unlocks the ability to get the password for the next user. Usernames are postgres, postgres1, postgres2, and so on. As soon as yoy have the password for the next user, connect as that user and proceed with the next level. You should also continue to work in the last database which was used for the previous level.

This is heavily inspired by https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/ which does more or less the same on the operating system level. The reason for all this is, to get people trained on basic PostgreSQL stuff.


## The container

To make it as easy as possible to play the game, everything is provided as a container based on [Rocky Linu 9](https://rockylinux.org/) and the [PostgreSQL yum repository](https://yum.postgresql.org/). Please follow the steps below to build, start and log into the container.

This was created and tested with [Podman](https://podman.io/) on Linux. [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) should work as well, bus wasn't tested.

### To build the container image

``` bash
podman build .
podman images
IMAGEID=`podman images | head -2 | awk -F " " '{print $3}' | tail -1`
```

### To run and log into the container

``` bash
podman run --detach ${IMAGEID}
CONTAINERID=`podman ps -a | tail -1 | awk -F " " '{print $1}'`
podman exec -it ${CONTAINERID=} /bin/bash
```

### All in once: Build, start and log into the container

``` bash
./run-game.sh
```


## The Game

### Level 0 -> Level 1

The password for the postgres superuser is the last line of the postgresql.conf file

### Level 1 -> Level 2

The password for the user postgres1 can be found in a table called "t".

### Level 2 -> Level 3

The password for the user postgres2 can be found in another database in another table.

### Level 3 -> Level 4

The password for the user postgres3 is the combination of relkind, relchecks and relhasindex attributes of the table which contained the password for postgres2.

### Level 4 -> Level 5

The password for the user postgres4 is the comment of the only available extension.

### Level 5 -> Level 6

The password for the user postgres5 is the startup cost of a sequential scan against the only available table in the current search_path.

### Level 6 -> Level 7

The password for the user postgres6 is the the work_mem setting of user postgres5.

### Level 7 -> Level 8

The password for the user postgres7 is the data type of the only column of the only table available in the current search_path concatenated with the column name. 

### Level 8 -> Level 9

The password for the user postgres8 is the name of the last partition of the only partitioned table in the database.

### Level 9 -> Level 10

The password for the user postgres9 is the combination of the currently connected user, the current database and the session user.

### Level 10 -> Level 11

The password for the user postgres10 is the Locale Provide of the current database.

### Level 11 -> Level 12

The password for the user postgres11 is 10.325TB in bytes

### Level 12 -> Level 13

The password for the user postgres12 is the size of an empty row in PostgreSQL in bytes.

### Level 13 -> Level 14

The password for the user postgres13 is the category description of the "between" keyword

Commit message:

Further tweak the first level

Readme.md, after:

# The PostgreSQL Game

The goal of this game is to get the passwords for the various user accounts in the PostgreSQl cluster. Retriving a password for a user unlocks the ability to get the password for the next user. Usernames are postgres, postgres1, postgres2, and so on. As soon as yoy have the password for the next user, connect as that user and proceed with the next level. You should also continue to work in the last database which was used for the previous level.

This is heavily inspired by https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/ which does more or less the same on the operating system level. The reason for all this is, to get people trained on basic PostgreSQL stuff.


## The container

To make it as easy as possible to play the game, everything is provided as a container based on [Rocky Linu 9](https://rockylinux.org/) and the [PostgreSQL yum repository](https://yum.postgresql.org/). Please follow the steps below to build, start and log into the container.

This was created and tested with [Podman](https://podman.io/) on Linux. [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) should work as well, bus wasn't tested.

### To build the container image

``` bash
podman build .
podman images
IMAGEID=`podman images | head -2 | awk -F " " '{print $3}' | tail -1`
```

### To run and log into the container

``` bash
podman run --detach ${IMAGEID}
CONTAINERID=`podman ps -a | tail -1 | awk -F " " '{print $1}'`
podman exec -it ${CONTAINERID=} /bin/bash
```

### All in once: Build, start and log into the container

``` bash
./run-game.sh
```


## The Game

### Level 0 -> Level 1

The password for the postgres superuser is the value of the timezone_abbreviations parameter

### Level 1 -> Level 2

The password for the user postgres1 can be found in a table called "t".

### Level 2 -> Level 3

The password for the user postgres2 can be found in another database in another table.

### Level 3 -> Level 4

The password for the user postgres3 is the combination of relkind, relchecks and relhasindex attributes of the table which contained the password for postgres2.

### Level 4 -> Level 5

The password for the user postgres4 is the comment of the only available extension.

### Level 5 -> Level 6

The password for the user postgres5 is the startup cost of a sequential scan against the only available table in the current search_path.

### Level 6 -> Level 7

The password for the user postgres6 is the the work_mem setting of user postgres5.

### Level 7 -> Level 8

The password for the user postgres7 is the data type of the only column of the only table available in the current search_path concatenated with the column name. 

### Level 8 -> Level 9

The password for the user postgres8 is the name of the last partition of the only partitioned table in the database.

### Level 9 -> Level 10

The password for the user postgres9 is the combination of the currently connected user, the current database and the session user.

### Level 10 -> Level 11

The password for the user postgres10 is the Locale Provide of the current database.

### Level 11 -> Level 12

The password for the user postgres11 is 10.325TB in bytes

### Level 12 -> Level 13

The password for the user postgres12 is the size of an empty row in PostgreSQL in bytes.

### Level 13 -> Level 14

The password for the user postgres13 is the category description of the "between" keyword

### Level 14 -> Level 15
